How do I learn Apache Spark?
Write Question Details

http://www.quora.com/How-do-I-learn-Apache-Spark

Comment
Share
Downvote
Gnacux PsGnacux Ps
Edit Bio • Make Anonymous
Write your answer, or answer later.
2 Answers
Ask to Answer
Suman BharadwajSuman Bharadwaj
12 upvotes by Gnacux Ps, Pavan Kulkarni, Harsh Patel, (more)
Start learning core concept of Spark - Resilient Distributed Dataset (RDD) . For further information regarding RDDs, refer to the below links. It contains lot of information on how RDD works.

    https://www.usenix.org/system/fi...
    http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~mate...


Additionally, you can also watch this fantastic video on RDD by Matei Zaharia:

    Resilient Distributed Datasets: A Fault-Tolerant Abstraction for In-Memory Cluster Computing


To help you get started with Spark, screen-casts are available on the SPARK website. Play around with Spark for some time to get your self familiar with the spark shell

    First Steps with Spark - Screencast #1
    Spark Documentation Overview - Screencast #2
    Transformations and Caching - Spark Screencast #3
    A Standalone Job in Scala - Spark Screencast #4


Although, Spark provides APIs for multiple languages, learning Scala will definitely help. A small introduction to Scala shell is available-

    Introduction to the Scala Shel


Once you are comfortable with above concepts and played with Spark for some time. Get into the internals of Spark. Matei Zaharia talks about the internals of SPARK in the below video. [ An excellent video, it helped me a lot ]



Now it's time to learn optimization techniques:

    Tuning Spark - Spark 1.0.0 Documentation
    A powerful Big Data trio: Spark, Parquet and Avro


Also, you can register to the Spark channel in Youtube. Spark summit, meetup and other videos are available in the Youtube Channel Apache Spark

Other links which helped me are :

    Differences at shuffle side between Hadoop and Spark- Page on berkeley.edu
    Spark with Java 8 - Making Spark Easier to Use in Java with Java 8


Spark is fantastic and easy to learn. You'll be amazed to see what 2-3 lines of Spark code can do.

Happy coding and welcome to lightning fast analytics !
  
Written 25 Jun.
Downvote
Comment
Share
Bạch GiangBạch Giang, Data Analyst
2 upvotes by Kien Cung and Darion Yaphet.
Scala basic
Scala School
A Tour of Scala: Case Classes

Spark basic
4. Working with Key-Value Pairs
Data Exploration Using Spark
Page on latrobe.edu.au

Python lambda, reduce, filter
Python Tutorial: Lambda Operator, filter, reduce and map

Simple Spark SQL - Try normal SQL and see magical things happen
Spark SQL Programming Guide
Spark 1.0.2 ScalaDoc
Note that Spark SQL currently uses a very basic SQL parser. Users that want a more complete dialect of SQL should look at the HiveQL support provided by HiveContext.

Nice hack with Spark
Why Apache Spark is a Crossover Hit for Data Scientists
Data Exploration Using BlinkDB

Start with Python
Page on ipython.org

Some Python APIs  equivalent to Scala
PySpark

MLLib
Linear Methods - MLlib - Spark 1.0.2 Documentation

Recommender
Building a food recommendation engine with Spark / MLlib and Play
Crouching Data, Hidden Markov
All-pairs similarity via DIMSUM | Twitter Blogs

Spark + Mesos
mesos/spark
How to build Apache Mesos on Mac
How to set up mesos for running spark on standalone OS/X
Installing Mesos onto a Mac with Homebrew
Cluster & Framework Mgmt
Running Spark on Mesos
Cloudera + Mesos + MapReduce + Spark + Chronos - is it possible? Are there similar alternatives?
6 Tutorials for Apache Mesos: Hadoop, Spark, Chronos, and More

Spark + CHD
Running Spark Applications



http://0x0fff.com/spark-dataframes-are-faster-arent-they/
